# Claim Link: NFT Campaign and Dispenser Platform on ICP

Claim Link is a decentralised platform built on the Internet Computer (ICP) that enables users to create NFT collections using the EXT token standard, mint NFTs, and distribute them through campaigns. Users can claim NFTs using a link or a QR code sent to their wallets. The platform also offers a dispenser feature for bulk NFT link distribution, facilitating easy sharing of multiple NFTs at once.

# Features

- Create Collection and Mint NFTs
  Users can create NFT collections using the EXT standard.
  NFTs can be minted under these collections and linked to campaigns.
- Campaign Management
  After creating a collection and minting NFTs, users can set up campaigns.
  Campaigns generate claim links for each NFT, allowing other users to claim NFTs directly into their connected wallets.
- QR Code Section
  The platform includes a feature for generating QR codes linked to campaigns.
  Users can download these QR codes and distribute them for easier NFT claiming.
- Dispenser Section
  The dispenser allows for bulk NFT link generation and distribution.
  Users can set up a campaign with multiple NFTs, and the dispenser generates links to distribute them efficiently.
- Dynamic UI
  The "Claim NFT" button is dynamically displayed based on the campaign’s time frame, showing users when they can claim an NFT.
  Countdown timers visually indicate campaign expiration, creating a more interactive user experience.

To get started, you might want to explore the project directory structure and the default configuration file. Working with this project in your development environment will not affect any production deployment or identity tokens.

To learn more before you start working with claimlink, see the following documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/deploy-locally)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/install)
- [Motoko Programming Language Guide](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/motoko)
- [Motoko Language Quick Reference](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/language-manual)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd claimlink/
dfx help
dfx canister --help
```

## Running the project locally

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

````bash
```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --background
dfx generate
cp src/declarations/claimlink_backend/* .dfx/local/canisters/claimlink_backend/




# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface
dfx deploy

dfx deploy --network ic
````

Once the job completes, your application will be available at `http://localhost:4943?canisterId={asset_canister_id}`.

If you have made changes to your backend canister, you can generate a new candid interface with

```bash
npm run generate
```

at any time. This is recommended before starting the frontend development server, and will be run automatically any time you run `dfx deploy`.

If you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to the replica at port 4943.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`DFX_NETWORK` to `ic` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` in the autogenerated declarations
  - Setting `canisters -> {asset_canister_id} -> declarations -> env_override to a string` in `dfx.json` will replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` with the string in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor
